Topic 1
Animal diversity
In this topic, you will study the main groups of animals, defining
features of their structure and biological characteristics. You will learn how
how they adapted to exist in a certain environment, as
interact with each other and what role they play in nature.
In addition, you will understand how closely related a person's interests are
with each species of animal. Each species, each group of animals has its own
role in the life of our planet. If it seems to us that some animals
do not play any role in our lives, it only means that
We still don't know them very well.
Throughout the study of the topic, you will explore the life of the
edges of seas and oceans, soil organisms, land-air
animals and those who have chosen other creatures as their habitat.
19

ANIMAL DIVERSITY
5 Classification and significance of animals
Famous ancient Greek scientist Aristotle
in the 4th century BC divided living organisms into two large
kingdoms — Plants and Animals. And why do we even
to group living organisms? And what makes a group special?
animals? What are the benefits or harms of them? Let's try
to figure it out.
Dividing animals into groups. How was it?
People have always understood that there are many different animals. Even
In the times of primitive society they were divided into groups. Now we call them
We call this division a classification. The first classifications were very
simple: these animals can be eaten, and these cannot. So there are two groups - edible
edible and inedible animals. Or you can divide animals in a completely different way:
those that hunt humans (e.g. tigers), those on which humans
hunts itself (for example, hares), and those that do not fall into the first two
groups (for example, the cross spider).
Over time, new classifications began to appear. And with this
a problem of misunderstanding arose between scientists from different countries. As between
to agree with each other, if, for example, the word "frog" in Ukrainian
and Russian languages denote completely different animals? That is why the
efforts were made to find a common language and develop classification rules.
To avoid confusion, it was agreed to give all names in Latin.
modern classification of animals
The basis of any classification in biology is the species. A species is a group of
a group of animals that has a common origin, the same structure, and occupies
a specific habitat. Each animal belongs to a specific species.
The scientific name of a species consists of two words. The full name is written
in Latin, and for convenience in each country it is translated into the local
language (Fig. 5.1).
Species should not be confused with breed. Breeds are formed as a result of the activity
of a person who creates them for his own purposes, and are not different species. Yes, different breeds
Dogs belong to one species - the domestic dog.
20

Classification and significance of animals

House sparrow
Domestic dog
Broad-billed Cancer
Fig. 5.1. Any animal belongs to a certain species

Common woodpecker
White-backed woodpecker
Medium-sized woodpecker
Fig. 5.2. Representatives of the species of the genus Woodpecker
Scientists group similar species that descend from the same ancestor
into groups. These groups are called genera. Note that the first word in the
The common name is the genus name. For example, the species Green Toad belongs to
to the genus Toad, and the domestic Dog to the genus Canis. To this same
The wolf also belongs to the genus. Its scientific name translates as
"Wolf dog." And in our forests we can see, for example,
several members of the genus Woodpecker (Fig. 5.2).
We all belong to the species Homo sapiens, genus Homo. The name of the species is Human.
intelligent - in Latin it is written Homo sapiens L. The letter L means the first letter of
named after the scientist Carl Linnaeus, who described this species. He is the only scientist whose surname
which is abbreviated as follows. Other authors of species names are given in full. And
This is a sign of respect for the scientist who created the principles of modern systematics.
Scientists group similar genera into families. For example, the genus Dog, the genus Pe-
The fox and the fox genus are part of the Canidae family. And the genera Chimpanzee and
The gorilla and orangutan are combined into the family Great apes.
Animal families, in turn, are united into larger groups -
orders. Thus, the Canidae, Uteridae, and Feline families belong to the order Carnivora.
And the orders themselves are combined into classes. For example, the class Mammals includes
includes the orders Carnivora, Primates, Artiodactyls, etc.
21

Animal diversity
Carl von Linnaeus (1707–1778) was a prominent Swedish biologist,
professor at Uppsala University. The main focus of the study is
devoted his time to the systematics of living organisms. He is the author of
modern classification of plants and animals, in which each species
corresponds to the Latin name of two words. Linnaeus described many
species of plants and animals.
In turn, classes are grouped into types. The Chord type, for example,
consists of the classes Mammals, Reptiles, Birds, etc. And to the type Member-
The classes Insecta and Crustacea belong to the class of arthropods. Finally,
types are combined into the kingdom of Animals, the same one that was singled out
also Aristotle.
Type
Class
Number
Family
Family
View
When scientists come across a new species, they first
classify it, that is, determine which group of animals it belongs to
lies. This, firstly, allows scientists to understand what kind of
is discussed in this or that study, and secondly, it allows us to approximate
but find out what can be gained from this species. If we know,
that the new species of beetle belongs to the Turuna family, which are mostly
are predators, we can try to use it to fight
with certain agricultural pests.
How can you classify an animal into a specific group?
To do this, scientists study it in detail. They take into account the peculiarities of
those of external and internal structure, distribution area and features
those vital activities. They also use more complex modern methods
research. External similarity is not always an indicator of close
family ties. So, whales that live in water, in terms of body shape
similar to fish, but their closest relatives are still mammals
these. Since whales breathe with lungs and feed their own
feed their young with milk, they are classified as Mammals.
The importance of animals for humans
Positive
• Food source (domestic and wild animals).
• Source of raw materials for industry — wool, leather, silk
etc.
